Admin Configuration
*******************

.. important::

    All of the settings in this section manipulate the admin section of the
    sidebar.

    However, by default, the admin sidebar section is only shown on
    `Django Admin pages <https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/ref/contrib/admin/>`_
    . If you would like to change this behavior so that the admin sidebar
    section is available on all pages, please see the
    :ref:`configuration/menu:ADMINLTE2_INCLUDE_ADMIN_NAV_ON_MAIN_PAGES` section for
    more information.


ADMINLTE2_INCLUDE_ADMIN_HOME_LINK
=================================

By default the admin menu sidebar will not have a link to the admin index page.
If you would like to see a link to the admin index page in the sidebar, set this
setting to ``True``.

.. note::

    This link is in essence another Admin link and as such will be treated like
    all other admin links. If you do not see this link in your sidebar after
    enabling, please refer to the
    :ref:`configuration/menu:ADMINLTE2_INCLUDE_ADMIN_NAV_ON_MAIN_PAGES`
    setting for more information.

:Type: ``bool``
:Default: ``False``

Example::

    ADMINLTE2_INCLUDE_ADMIN_HOME_LINK = {True|False}


ADMINLTE2_ADMIN_INDEX_USE_APP_LIST
==================================

By default Django-AdminLTE-2 will put the Apps on the Admin Index page
into AdminLTE Info Boxes. Setting this to ``True`` will change that look
to the traditional Django list view but still within the main AdminLTE site
styling.

.. note::

    If you do not see a link for the admin index page in the sidebar, please
    refer to the :ref:`configuration/admin:ADMINLTE2_INCLUDE_ADMIN_HOME_LINK`
    setting for information on how to enable it.

:Type: ``bool``
:Default: ``False``

Example::

    ADMINLTE2_ADMIN_INDEX_USE_APP_LIST = {True|False}


ADMINLTE2_ADMIN_MENU_IN_TREE
============================

By default the admin sidebar will render a root entry for each app in the
project. Each app entry will be a tree that can be collapsed and expanded to
reveal entries for the models in that app.

Additionally, the entire admin sidebar section can be grouped into a tree. This
will allow the entire admin menu section to be collapsible. To enable this
behavior, change this setting to ``True``.

.. note::

    You can refer to the :ref:`menu/building_blocks:tree` section of the
    :doc:`../menu/building_blocks` page for more information about how trees work
    and are defined.

:Type: ``bool``
:Default: ``False``

Example::

    ADMINLTE2_ADMIN_MENU_IN_TREE = {True|False}


ADMINLTE2_ADMIN_CONTROL_SIDEBAR_TABS
====================================

By default, when viewing a Django admin page, there is a tri-cog icon in the
top right corner of the top bar that shows additional information via a
popped out sidebar when clicked. The default content is the "Recent Activity"
section of the admin. In addition to this, up to two additional sections of
information can be added to this popped out sidebar. When more than one section
of information is configured to be shown, tabs are automatically created to be
able to easily switch between those sections on the popped out sidebar.

Since the control sidebar can contain between zero and three tabs, this
single setting controls the visibility of all three of those tabs.
The main setting is called ``ADMINLTE2_ADMIN_CONTROL_SIDEBAR_TABS``, which is
a dictionary of additional settings. Each of which will either turn on or off
one of the tabs in the sidebar.

The additional settings consist of:

* ``SHOW_RECENT_ACTIVITY_TAB`` - Shows the Recent Activity of the admin.
* ``SHOW_SETTINGS_TAB`` - A good place for any admin related additional settings.
* ``SHOW_EXTRA_TABS`` - An extra tab for whatever else you might need.

The **RECENT_ACTIVITY_TAB** content is automatically generated by the admin.
The content for the other optional tabs must be created by overriding some of
the templates that come with this package. The templates that you would need to
look at and potentially override are:

* ``admin/partials/_control_sidebar.html``
* ``admin/partials/_control_sidebar/_tabs.html``
* ``admin/partials/_control_sidebar/_recent_activity_tab_pane.html``
* ``admin/partials/_control_sidebar/_settings_tab_pane.html``
* ``admin/partials/_control_sidebar/_extra_tab_panes.html``

If all of the tabs are turned off, the entire tri-cog icon and associated
button will be removed and the user dropdown will shift to the right.

:Type: ``dict``
:Default: ``{'SHOW_RECENT_ACTIVITY_TAB': True,}``

Example::

    ADMINLTE2_ADMIN_CONTROL_SIDEBAR_TABS = {
        'SHOW_RECENT_ACTIVITY_TAB': {True|False},
        'SHOW_SETTINGS_TAB': {True|False},
        'SHOW_EXTRA_TABS': {True|False},
    }
