docs/source/templates/templates.rst, before:

Templates
*********

General
=======

This package comes with a lot of templates that are used right out of the box.
Any and all of these templates can be overridden to customize the look and feel
of the site. Rather than listing out every single file and every single block
within those files that can be overridden, it is preferable that you just
reference the files yourself to see what can be overridden. The files can be
found on
`GitHub <https://github.com/DJBarnes/django-adminlte-2/tree/master/django_adminlte_2/templates>`_.

.. important::

    In ``settings.py``, if you are using
    `APP_DIRS <https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/howto/overriding-templates/#overriding-from-an-app-s-template-directory>`_
    to override templates, you must ensure that the app you are using to house
    those templates is listed in the
    `INSTALLED_APPS <https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/ref/settings/#std-setting-INSTALLED_APPS>`_
    setting before the django-adminlte-2 app. Additionally, the
    django-adminlte-2 app should be listed before any django apps.

For a sample change, see the below instructions.


Example Change
==============

Use the following steps as an example of a change that can be made to change
parts of the site. Let's say that we want to remove or change the login with
social links section from the login page.

.. image:: ../../img/template/django-adminlte-2-login-template-original.png
    :alt: Original default login page that comes with django-adminlte-2

We can accomplish this with the following steps:

1.  Create ``registration/login.html`` in one of your django project's
    `template <https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/ref/settings/#templates>`_
    folders defined in your settings file.
2.  Extend the packages default ``registration/login.html`` by adding the
    following line to the file created above.

    .. code:: html+django

        {% extends "registration/login.html" %}

3.  Override the ``social_auth_links`` block. An empty block will remove the
    original content. Additionally, a block with content will replace the
    original content.

    **Removal**

    .. code:: html+django

        {% block social_auth_links %}{% endblock social_auth_links %}

    .. image:: ../../img/template/django-adminlte-2-login-template-no-social.png
        :alt: Updated login page with no social links

    **Replacement**

    .. code:: html+django

        {% block social_auth_links %}
          <div class="social-auth-links text-center">
            <p>- OR -</p>
            <a href="#" class="btn btn-block btn-social btn-github btn-flat">
              <i class="fa fa-github"></i>
              Sign in using Github
            </a>
          </div>
        {% endblock social_auth_links %}

    .. image:: ../../img/template/django-adminlte-2-login-template-github.png
        :alt: Updated login page with GitHub as the social link.

Commit message:

Update wording and clarity of project docs

docs/source/templates/templates.rst, after:

Templates
*********

General
=======

The main purpose of the **Django-AdminLTE-2** package is to streamline creation
of `Django <https://www.djangoproject.com/>`_ sites, using the
`AdminLTE2 <https://adminlte.io/themes/AdminLTE/index2.html>`_ theme.

As such, this package comes with many templates that are used right out of the
box, and an automagically-customized site look and feel, just by following the
minimal steps as described in :doc:`../quickstart`.

Any and all of these templates can be overridden to further customize the look
and feel of the site, depending on project needs. Rather than listing out every
single file and every single block within those files that can be overridden,
it is preferable that you just reference the files yourself. The files can be
found on
`GitHub <https://github.com/DJBarnes/django-adminlte-2/tree/master/django_adminlte_2/templates>`_.

.. important::

    In ``settings.py``, if you are using
    `APP_DIRS <https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/howto/overriding-templates/#overriding-from-an-app-s-template-directory>`_
    to override templates, you must ensure that the app you are using to house
    those templates is listed in the
    `INSTALLED_APPS <https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/ref/settings/#std-setting-INSTALLED_APPS>`_
    setting before the django-adminlte-2 app. Additionally, the
    django-adminlte-2 app should be listed before any django apps.


Example Customization
=====================

To show just how easy it can be to use and customize templates in the
**Django-AdminLTE-2** package, we can show an example. The following three steps
document customizing the login page **social links** section.

First, we can see what this page looks like by default:

.. image:: ../../img/template/django-adminlte-2-login-template-original.png
    :alt: Original default login page that comes with django-adminlte-2


To change this page, we can create a template to override the original behavior:

1.  Create ``registration/login.html`` in one of your django project's
    `template <https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/ref/settings/#templates>`_
    folders, defined via the project settings file.
2.  Extend the packages default ``registration/login.html`` by adding the
    following line:

    .. code:: html+django

        {% extends "registration/login.html" %}

3.  Override the ``social_auth_links`` block. An empty block will remove the
    original content. Alternatively, a block with content will replace the
    original content.

    **Example of "Social Link" Section Removal**

    .. code:: html+django

        {% block social_auth_links %}{% endblock social_auth_links %}

    .. image:: ../../img/template/django-adminlte-2-login-template-no-social.png
        :alt: Updated login page with no social links

    **Example of "Social Link" Section Replacement**

    .. code:: html+django

        {% block social_auth_links %}
          <div class="social-auth-links text-center">
            <p>- OR -</p>
            <a href="#" class="btn btn-block btn-social btn-github btn-flat">
              <i class="fa fa-github"></i>
              Sign in using Github
            </a>
          </div>
        {% endblock social_auth_links %}

    .. image:: ../../img/template/django-adminlte-2-login-template-github.png
        :alt: Updated login page with GitHub as the social link.


Reminder to reference the
`GitHub files <https://github.com/DJBarnes/django-adminlte-2/tree/master/django_adminlte_2/templates>`_
to see all possible package templates that can be overridden.
