docs/source/menu/building_blocks.rst, before:

Building Blocks
***************

The menu is built using a combination of the following 4 types of
building blocks:

* Section_
* Separator_
* Node_
* Tree_


----


Section
=======

A section is a grouping of other related navigational elements. Technically,
a section is simply a Python dictionary, with a specific set of expected values.

A section will consist of section text and any nodes that
make up the remaining parts of the section. Neither the text nor the
nodes are required.

For Example:

* You can have no text and no nodes if you just want some extra space in the
  sidebar between other sections.
* You can have text with no nodes if you only want a header.
* You can have nodes without text if you want a blank header.

Generally speaking, most common implementation will consist of defining both
text and nodes.


----


Section Keys
------------

The following are accepted keys used when defining a section menu block.


**text**

A string representing the section text that a user will see.

:Key: ``text``
:Type: ``string``
:Required: ``False``


**nodes**

A list of node_ dictionaries that will render out each sidebar link,
and/or a tree_ definition that contains additional nodes to render links.

:Key: ``nodes``
:Type: ``list``
:Required: ``False``


Section Example
---------------

.. code:: python

    {
        'text': 'Home',
        'nodes': []
    }


----


Separator
=========

A separator is a physical line separating one section from the next.

Technically, this is a section_ block with very specific properties. It has no
text or node keys, and instead has a key called ``separator`` that is set to
``True``.


----


Separator Keys
--------------

The following are required keys used when defining a separator menu block.


**text**

A blank string.

:Key: ``text``
:Type: ``string``
:Required: ``True``


**nodes**

An empty list.

:Key: ``nodes``
:Type: ``list``
:Required: ``True``


**separator**

Defined as ``True``.

:Key: ``separator``
:Type: ``bool``
:Required: ``True``


Separator Example
-----------------

.. code:: python

    {
        'text': '',
        'nodes': [],
        'separator': True,
    }


----


Node
====

A node is a python dictionary that will create a clickable sidebar link. This
includes a name and an icon in the sidebar.


----


Node Keys
---------

The following are accepted keys used when defining a node menu block.


**route**

A valid django route. If you are scaffolding your menu out and do
not have a valid route yet, just enter a ``#`` as a place holder.

:Key: ``route``
:Type: ``string``
:Required: ``True``


**text**

A string representing what will be rendered for the user to see.

:Key: ``text``
:Type: ``string``
:Required: ``False``


**icon**

Either a `Font-Awesome 4 <https://fontawesome.com/v4/icons/>`_ or
`Font-Awesome 5 <https://fontawesome.com/v5/search?m=free>`_ set of CSS classes.
All required classes needed to make the icon show up must be listed.

:Key: ``icon``
:Type: ``string``
:Required: ``False``


**hook**

An optional string representing the name of a fully qualified function. This
function will be called to return the text to render for the node.
This allows the ability to dynamically create the node's text.

:Key: ``hook``
:Type: ``string``
:Required: ``False``

.. note::

    Django-AdminLTE-2 will try to import the value for this key as a function
    and then invoke the function and use it's results as the text for the node.

    The function should return either a string that will be used for both the
    text and the title text of the node, or a 2-tuple with string values for
    both text and title separately.

.. tip::

    This hook is best used for making a few nodes in an otherwise static menu
    dynamic. If you need a lot of dynamic nodes, the information in the
    :doc:`advanced` section might be more useful.


**url**

An optional string representing the url for the link.

:Key: ``url``
:Type: ``string``
:Required: ``False``

.. warning::

    This key is generally reserved for providing external urls.

    When defining internal urls, it is **strongly** recommended that you avoid
    this key. Instead, preferably use the node's route key, rather than
    defining the actual internal URL here.

.. note::

    If you decide to use the url key, you must still provide the route key with
    a value of ``"#"`` as well since the sidebar is expecting that every node
    will have a route key.

.. tip::

    This url key is useful if you need to link to an external website rather
    than an internal link. External links must define any permissions directly
    on the node as there is no associated view to be able to pull permissions
    from. See the :doc:`../authorization/policies` page for more information.


**permissions**

An optional list of permissions as strings. The user must have all listed
permissions in order to see the node.

:Key: ``url``
:Type: ``list``
:Required: ``False``

.. warning::

    In general, you should use the functionality defined on the
    :doc:`Authorization <../authorization/policies>` pages to add permissions
    to a view rather than directly to a node. Defining on the view will handle
    both:

    * Hiding a node in the sidebar.
    * Preventing direct URL navigation, without the need to additionally set the
      permissions on this node key.

    This key will **NOT** fully protect the link that the node is associated
    with.

.. tip::

    This key may be useful when you have an external link that needs to also
    be shown or hidden based on a list of permissions.


**one_of_permissions**

An optional list of permissions as strings. The user must have at least one of
these order to see the node.

:Key: ``url``
:Type: ``list``
:Required: ``False``

.. warning::

    In general, you should use the functionality defined on the
    :doc:`Authorization <../authorization/policies>` pages to add permissions
    to a view rather than directly to a node. Defining on the view will handle
    both:

    * Hiding a node in the sidebar.
    * Preventing direct URL navigation, without the need to additionally set the
      permissions on this node key.

    This key will **NOT** fully protect the link that the node is associated
    with.

.. tip::

    This key may be useful when you have an external link that needs to also
    be shown or hidden based on a list of permissions.


**login_required**

An optional key on the node specifying whether a user must be logged in to
the system in order to see the node.

:Key: ``url``
:Type: ``bool``
:Required: ``False``

.. warning::

    In general, you should use the functionality defined on the
    :doc:`Authorization <../authorization/policies>` pages to add a login
    required criteria to a view, rather than directly to a node. Defining on the
    view will handle both:

    * Hiding a node in the sidebar.
    * Preventing direct URL navigation without the need to additionally define
      that login is required on this node.

    This key will **NOT** fully protect the link that the node is associated
    with.

.. tip::

    This key may be useful when you have an external link that needs to also
    be shown or hidden based on a the user being logged in.


Node Example
------------

.. code:: python

    {
        'route': 'django_adminlte_2:home',
        'text': 'Home',
        'icon': 'fa fa-dashboard',
    }


Complex Node Example
--------------------

**Node**

.. code:: python

    {
        'route': '#',
        'text': 'Github',
        'icon': 'fa fa-github',
        'url': 'https://github.com',
        'hook': 'core.utils.home_link_text',
        'permissions': ['is_developer'],
    }

**core/utils.py**

.. code:: python

    def home_link_text(context):
        "Custom home link text"
        text = 'Home'
        if user.is_staff:
            text = 'Home!!!!!'
        return text


----


Tree
====

A tree is a python dictionary that will create an expandable entry with text
and an icon in the sidebar. In addition, the tree will contain other nodes
and/or trees as the children of the tree.

Trees can make a very large menu fit into a smaller space by utilizing the
ability to expand and collapse each tree section.


----


Tree Keys
---------


**text**

A string representing what will be rendered for the user to see.

:Key: ``text``
:Type: ``string``
:Required: ``False``


**icon**

Either a `Font-Awesome 4 <https://fontawesome.com/v4/icons/>`_ or
`Font-Awesome 5 <https://fontawesome.com/v5/search?m=free>`_ set of CSS classes.
All required classes needed to make the icon show up must be listed.

:Key: ``icon``
:Type: ``string``
:Required: ``False``


**nodes**

A list of node dictionaries that will render out each sidebar link,
or a tree that will contain more nodes.

:Key: ``nodes``
:Type: ``list``
:Required: ``False``


Tree Example
------------
.. code:: python

    {
        'text': 'Sample Tree',
        'icon': 'fa fa-leaf',
        'nodes': [],
    },


Tree Example with a Node
------------------------

.. code:: python

    {
        'text': 'Sample Tree',
        'icon': 'fa fa-leaf',
        'nodes': [
            {
                'route': 'django_adminlte_2:sample2',
                'text': 'Sample2',
                'icon': 'fa fa-building',
            },
        ],
    },


Tree Example with sub-tree and a Node
-------------------------------------
.. code:: python

    {
        'text': 'Sample Tree',
        'icon': 'fa fa-leaf',
        'nodes': [
            {
                'text': 'Sub Tree',
                'icon': 'fa fa-box',
                'nodes': [
                    {
                        'route': 'django_adminlte_2:sample2',
                        'text': 'Sample2',
                        'icon': 'fa fa-building',
                    },
                ],
            },
        ],
    },

Commit message:

Add ability to provide route args to a node for the menu. Update documentation to reflect this change.

docs/source/menu/building_blocks.rst, after:

Building Blocks
***************

The menu is built using a combination of the following 4 types of
building blocks:

* Section_
* Separator_
* Node_
* Tree_


----


Section
=======

A section is a grouping of other related navigational elements. Technically,
a section is simply a Python dictionary, with a specific set of expected values.

A section will consist of section text and any nodes that
make up the remaining parts of the section. Neither the text nor the
nodes are required.

For Example:

* You can have no text and no nodes if you just want some extra space in the
  sidebar between other sections.
* You can have text with no nodes if you only want a header.
* You can have nodes without text if you want a blank header.

Generally speaking, most common implementation will consist of defining both
text and nodes.


----


Section Keys
------------

The following are accepted keys used when defining a section menu block.


**text**

A string representing the section text that a user will see.

:Key: ``text``
:Type: ``string``
:Required: ``False``


**nodes**

A list of node_ dictionaries that will render out each sidebar link,
and/or a tree_ definition that contains additional nodes to render links.

:Key: ``nodes``
:Type: ``list``
:Required: ``False``


Section Example
---------------

.. code:: python

    {
        'text': 'Home',
        'nodes': []
    }


----


Separator
=========

A separator is a physical line separating one section from the next.

Technically, this is a section_ block with very specific properties. It has no
text or node keys, and instead has a key called ``separator`` that is set to
``True``.


----


Separator Keys
--------------

The following are required keys used when defining a separator menu block.


**text**

A blank string.

:Key: ``text``
:Type: ``string``
:Required: ``True``


**nodes**

An empty list.

:Key: ``nodes``
:Type: ``list``
:Required: ``True``


**separator**

Defined as ``True``.

:Key: ``separator``
:Type: ``bool``
:Required: ``True``


Separator Example
-----------------

.. code:: python

    {
        'text': '',
        'nodes': [],
        'separator': True,
    }


----


Node
====

A node is a python dictionary that will create a clickable sidebar link. This
includes a name and an icon in the sidebar.


----


Node Keys
---------

The following are accepted keys used when defining a node menu block.


**route**

A valid django route. If you are scaffolding your menu out and do
not have a valid route yet, just enter a ``#`` as a place holder.

:Key: ``route``
:Type: ``string``
:Required: ``True``


**route_args**

Any required args needed to be able to reverse the route.

:Key: ``route_args``
:Type: ``list``
:Required: ``False``


**route_kwargs**

Any required kwargs needed to be able to reverse the route.

:Key: ``route_kwargs``
:Type: ``dict``
:Required: ``False``


**text**

A string representing what will be rendered for the user to see.

:Key: ``text``
:Type: ``string``
:Required: ``False``


**icon**

Either a `Font-Awesome 4 <https://fontawesome.com/v4/icons/>`_ or
`Font-Awesome 5 <https://fontawesome.com/v5/search?m=free>`_ set of CSS classes.
All required classes needed to make the icon show up must be listed.

:Key: ``icon``
:Type: ``string``
:Required: ``False``


**hook**

An optional string representing the name of a fully qualified function. This
function will be called to return the text to render for the node.
This allows the ability to dynamically create the node's text.

:Key: ``hook``
:Type: ``string``
:Required: ``False``

.. note::

    Django-AdminLTE-2 will try to import the value for this key as a function
    and then invoke the function and use it's results as the text for the node.

    The function should return either a string that will be used for both the
    text and the title text of the node, or a 2-tuple with string values for
    both text and title separately.

.. tip::

    This hook is best used for making a few nodes in an otherwise static menu
    dynamic. If you need a lot of dynamic nodes, the information in the
    :doc:`advanced` section might be more useful.


**url**

An optional string representing the url for the link. If provided, it will take
precedence over the url generated from the required route key.

:Key: ``url``
:Type: ``string``
:Required: ``False``

.. warning::

    This key is generally reserved for providing external urls.

    When defining internal urls, it is **strongly** recommended that you avoid
    this key and instead, use the node's route key.

.. note::

    If you decide to use the url key, you must still provide the route key with
    a value of ``"#"`` as well since the sidebar is expecting that every node
    will have a route key.

    Additionally, if this key is used, it will take precedence over the route key.

.. tip::

    This url key is useful if you need to link to an external website rather
    than an internal link. External links must define any permissions directly
    on the node as there is no associated view to be able to pull permissions
    from. See the :doc:`../authorization/policies` page for more information.


**permissions**

An optional list of permissions as strings. The user must have all listed
permissions in order to see the node.

:Key: ``url``
:Type: ``list``
:Required: ``False``

.. warning::

    In general, you should use the functionality defined on the
    :doc:`Authorization <../authorization/policies>` pages to add permissions
    to a view rather than directly to a node. Defining on the view will handle
    both:

    * Hiding a node in the sidebar.
    * Preventing direct URL navigation, without the need to additionally set the
      permissions on this node key.

    This key will **NOT** fully protect the link that the node is associated
    with.

.. tip::

    This key may be useful when you have an external link that needs to also
    be shown or hidden based on a list of permissions.


**one_of_permissions**

An optional list of permissions as strings. The user must have at least one of
these order to see the node.

:Key: ``url``
:Type: ``list``
:Required: ``False``

.. warning::

    In general, you should use the functionality defined on the
    :doc:`Authorization <../authorization/policies>` pages to add permissions
    to a view rather than directly to a node. Defining on the view will handle
    both:

    * Hiding a node in the sidebar.
    * Preventing direct URL navigation, without the need to additionally set the
      permissions on this node key.

    This key will **NOT** fully protect the link that the node is associated
    with.

.. tip::

    This key may be useful when you have an external link that needs to also
    be shown or hidden based on a list of permissions.


**login_required**

An optional key on the node specifying whether a user must be logged in to
the system in order to see the node.

:Key: ``url``
:Type: ``bool``
:Required: ``False``

.. warning::

    In general, you should use the functionality defined on the
    :doc:`Authorization <../authorization/policies>` pages to add a login
    required criteria to a view, rather than directly to a node. Defining on the
    view will handle both:

    * Hiding a node in the sidebar.
    * Preventing direct URL navigation without the need to additionally define
      that login is required on this node.

    This key will **NOT** fully protect the link that the node is associated
    with.

.. tip::

    This key may be useful when you have an external link that needs to also
    be shown or hidden based on a the user being logged in.


Node Example
------------

.. code:: python

    {
        'route': 'django_adminlte_2:home',
        'text': 'Home',
        'icon': 'fa fa-dashboard',
    }


Complex Node Example
--------------------

**Node**

.. code:: python

    {
        'route': '#',
        'text': 'Github',
        'icon': 'fa fa-github',
        'url': 'https://github.com',
        'hook': 'core.utils.home_link_text',
        'permissions': ['is_developer'],
    }

**core/utils.py**

.. code:: python

    def home_link_text(context):
        "Custom home link text"
        text = 'Home'
        if user.is_staff:
            text = 'Home!!!!!'
        return text


----


Tree
====

A tree is a python dictionary that will create an expandable entry with text
and an icon in the sidebar. In addition, the tree will contain other nodes
and/or trees as the children of the tree.

Trees can make a very large menu fit into a smaller space by utilizing the
ability to expand and collapse each tree section.


----


Tree Keys
---------


**text**

A string representing what will be rendered for the user to see.

:Key: ``text``
:Type: ``string``
:Required: ``False``


**icon**

Either a `Font-Awesome 4 <https://fontawesome.com/v4/icons/>`_ or
`Font-Awesome 5 <https://fontawesome.com/v5/search?m=free>`_ set of CSS classes.
All required classes needed to make the icon show up must be listed.

:Key: ``icon``
:Type: ``string``
:Required: ``False``


**nodes**

A list of node dictionaries that will render out each sidebar link,
or a tree that will contain more nodes.

:Key: ``nodes``
:Type: ``list``
:Required: ``False``


Tree Example
------------
.. code:: python

    {
        'text': 'Sample Tree',
        'icon': 'fa fa-leaf',
        'nodes': [],
    },


Tree Example with a Node
------------------------

.. code:: python

    {
        'text': 'Sample Tree',
        'icon': 'fa fa-leaf',
        'nodes': [
            {
                'route': 'django_adminlte_2:sample2',
                'text': 'Sample2',
                'icon': 'fa fa-building',
            },
        ],
    },


Tree Example with sub-tree and a Node
-------------------------------------
.. code:: python

    {
        'text': 'Sample Tree',
        'icon': 'fa fa-leaf',
        'nodes': [
            {
                'text': 'Sub Tree',
                'icon': 'fa fa-box',
                'nodes': [
                    {
                        'route': 'django_adminlte_2:sample2',
                        'text': 'Sample2',
                        'icon': 'fa fa-building',
                    },
                ],
            },
        ],
    },
